= Request Profiler

+request_profiler+ is a rack middleware that allows you to profile
rack requests using {ruby-prof}[https://github.com/rdp/ruby-prof]. It
sits out of the way until it's triggered using a specific request
parameter. Once triggered, it will profile the request and dump a log
file.

== Setup

After the gem is installed, it's used in the same way any rack
middleware is set up. In Rails, you'd probably want to do something
like this:

  config.middleware.use "Rack::RequestProfiler"

+request_profiler+ takes a few optional parameters:

:printer:: the +ruby-prof+ printer to use. Defaults to
           RubyProf::GraphPrinter.
           
:exclude:: a list of regexes (like <tt>[/Integer#times]</tt>) that
           will not appear in the profile log. This is most commonly
           used for methods that take a block, where you don't care
           how much time was spent in the method itself.

:path:: the path to write the log files to. If +request_profiler+ is
        running under Rails, this defaults to
        <tt>Rails.root/tmp/performance</tt>, otherwise it defaults to
        <tt>$TMPDIR/performance</tt>.
 
== Using +request_profiler+

When you get to the point where you'd like to profile a request, you
just add +profile_request=true+ to the end of your request's query
string. By default, this will use the <tt>RubyProf::PROCESS_TIME</tt>
profiler. If you'd like to use a different profiler, you can specify
the profiler class instead of +true+ in the query string. For example,

  profile_request=memory

will use the <tt>RubyProf::MEMORY</tt> profiler. Note that the
profilers other than +PROCESS_TIME+ and +WALL_TIME+ require a patched
ruby interpreter, as mentioned in the ruby-prof documentation. REE
should work out of the box, but as far as I know, these patches don't
yet exist for ruby 1.9.

== Bugs Under Ruby 1.9.2

+ruby_prof+ uses a ruby method called +set_trace_func+, which tends to
crash under ruby 1.9.2. I have an experimental patch which backports
the fix in the 1.9.3 branch to 1.9.2, and adjusts the stack depth
threshhold ruby uses, which fixes some other interpreter crashes I was
seeing. If you run into similar issues, you should grab the patch
located under +patches/set_trace_func_fix192.patch+. With
{rvm}[http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/], it's as simple as

  rvm install 1.9.2p0 --patch /path/to/set_trace_func_fix192.patch